=encoding utf8

Z<perl_community>

=head1 社区网站

X<perl.org>
X<websites; perl.org>

Perl 的主页位于 U<http://www.perl.org/>。这个站点提供了文档、源代码、教程、邮件列表
以及若干重要的社区项目。如果你是 Perl 新手，那么友善的 Perl 新手邮件列表就是你提问并
得到准确解答的地方。参见 U<http://beginners.perl.org/>。

U<http://dev.perl.org/> 是一个值得一提的子域名，Perl 5、 Perl 6 N<Perl 6 主站为
U<http://www.perl6.org/>>，甚至是 Perl 1 核心开发的中心站点。

X<Perl Pub>

Perl.com 每月发布若干关于 Perl 编程的文章和教程。其存档可追溯到20世纪。参见
U<http://www.perl.com/>。

X<cpan.org>
X<websites; cpan.org>

CPAN (L<cpan>) 的中心位置位于 U<http://www.cpan.org/>，虽然有经验的用户通常在 
U<http://search.cpan.org/> 上花去更多时间。这个承载着可重用、免费 Perl 代码的
软件发布中心枢纽是 Perl 社区的基本组成部分。

X<PerlMonks>

PerlMonks，位于 U<http://perlmonks.org/>，这处可敬的社区站点专门用于 Perl 编程问答及
其他讨论。它于2009年十二月过完十周岁生日，使其成为编程语言专用 Web 社区中持续时间最长
者之一。

X<use Perl;>
X<blogs.perl.org>

若干社区网站提供新闻和评论。最古老的是 U<http://use.perl.org/>，它提供自主期刊已有
许多年头。不少知名 Perl 黑客曾在那里执笔。U<http://blogs.perl.org/> 是一个用于撰写 
Perl 主题博客的新兴社区站点。

X<Enlightened Perl Organization>

其他一些站点则集中展示了 Perl 黑客们对 Perl 的沉思，包括 U<http://perlsphere.net/>、
U<http://planet.perl.org/> 以及 U<http://ironman.enlightenedperl.org/>。后者是来自 
Enlightened Perl Organization (U<http://enlightenedperl.org/>) 倡议的一部分，以期增加
Perl 在线出版物的数量和质量。

X<Perl Buzz>

Perl Buzz (U<http://perlbuzz.com/>) 定期收集并重新发布一些最有趣、有用的 Perl 新闻。

=head1 Development Sites

X<RT>
X<Best Practical>

Best Practical Solutions (U<http://bestpractical.com/>) maintains an
installation of their popular request tracking system, RT, for CPAN authors as
well as Perl 5 and Perl 6 development.  Every CPAN distribution has its own RT
queue, linked from C<search.cpan.org> and available on U<http://rt.cpan.org/>.
Perl 5 and Perl 6 have separate RT queues available on U<http://rt.perl.org/>.

X<Perl 5 Porters>
X<p5p>

The Perl 5 Porters (also known as I<p5p>) mailing list is the central point for
Perl 5 development discussion.  See
U<http://lists.cpan.org/showlist.cgi?name=perl5-porters>.

X<TPF>
X<The Perl Foundation>
X<TPF wiki>

The Perl Foundation (U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/>) hosts a wiki for all
things Perl 5.  See U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5>.

X<Github>
X<Gitpan>

Many Perl hackers use Github (U<http://github.com/>) to host their
projectsN<...  including the drafts of this book at
U<http://github.com/chromatic/modern_perl_book/>>.  One particularly notable
page on Github is Gitpan, which hosts Git repositories chronicling the complete
history of every distribution on the CPAN.  See U<http://github.com/gitpan/>.

=head1 Events

X<YAPC>

There are plenty of events in the physical world as well.  The Perl community
holds a lot of conferences, workshops, and seminars.  In particular, the
community-run YAPC--Yet Another Perl Conference--is a successful, local,
low-cost conference model held on multiple continents.  See
U<http://yapc.org/>.

The Perl Foundation wiki lists other events at
U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5/index.cgi?perl_events>.

X<Perl Mongers>

There are also hundreds of local Perl Mongers groups which get together
frequently for technical talks and social interaction.  See
U<http://www.pm.org/>.

=head1 IRC

X<IRC>
X<IRC; #moose>
X<IRC; #catalyst>
X<IRC; #perl-help>
X<IRC; #perl>

When Perl mongers aren't at local meetups or conferences or workshops, many
collaborate and chat online through IRC, a textual group chat system from the
early days of the Internet.  Many of the most popular and useful Perl projects
have their own IRC channels, such as I<#moose> or I<#catalyst>.

The main server for Perl community is U<irc://irc.perl.org/>.  Other notable
channels include I<#perl-help>, for general assistance on Perl programming, and
I<#perl-qa>, devoted to testing and other quality issues.  Be aware that the
channel I<#perl> is I<not> for general help--instead, it's a general purpose
room for discussing whatever its participants want to discussN<... and it's not
often friendly to people who ask basic programming questions.>.
